THE P VERSUS NP PROBLEM
STEPHEN COOK

1. Statement of the Problem
The P versus NP problem is to determine whether every language accepted
by some nondeterministic algorithm in polynomial time is also accepted by some
(deterministic) algorithm in polynomial time. To define the problem precisely it
is necessary to give a formal model of a computer. The standard computer model
in computability theory is the Turing machine, introduced by Alan Turing in 1936
[37]. Although the model was introduced before physical computers were built, it
nevertheless continues to be accepted as the proper computer model for the purpose
of defining the notion of computable function.
Informally the class P is the class of decision problems solvable by some algorithm
within a number of steps bounded by some fixed polynomial in the length of the
input. Turing was not concerned with the efficiency of his machines, rather his
concern was whether they can simulate arbitrary algorithms given sufficient time. It
turns out, however, Turing machines can generally simulate more efficient computer
models (for example, machines equipped with many tapes or an unbounded random
access memory) by at most squaring or cubing the computation time. Thus P is a
robust class and has equivalent definitions over a large class of computer models.
Here we follow standard practice and define the class P in terms of Turing machines.
Formally the elements of the class P are languages. Let Σ be a finite alphabet
(that is, a finite nonempty set) with at least two elements, and let Σ∗ be the set
of finite strings over Σ. Then a language over Σ is a subset L of Σ∗
. Each Turing
machine M has an associated input alphabet Σ. For each string w in Σ∗
there is
a computation associated with M with input w. (The notions of Turing machine
and computation are defined formally in the appendix.) We say that M accepts w
if this computation terminates in the accepting state. Note that M fails to accept
w either if this computation ends in the rejecting state, or if the computation fails
to terminate. The language accepted by M, denoted L(M), has associated alphabet
Σ and is defined by